
# `ratification.json` data notes

* Before the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, 2019, the constitution had limited application to the State of Jammu and Kashmir. Under the Constitution (Application to Jammu and Kashmir) Order, 1954 (C.O. 48, [link](https://images.assettype.com/barandbench/import/2019/08/Constitution-Order-1954.pdf)) amendments to the constitution did not automatically apply in J&K, and needed to be specifically applied by an order of the President under article 370(1). In at least one case (the Third Amendment), this appears to have been deemed to render the state's ratification of the amendment unnecessary, because that amendment was ratified by only eight states, when ten were required (Hyderabad seems to also have received this treatment). However, I cannot find any reliable source that explains whether J&K's ratification was necessary, or whether it counted towards calculating the 50% threshold of states required to ratify an amendment. The state ratified several amendments before its abolition in 2019, even though they would not automatically apply to the state.
* I cannot find reliable data on ratification from the 95th or 104th amendments. The Secretary General of the Lok Sabha used to publish a regular document (linked on main `README.md`) that contained the Statement of Objects and Reasons (SOR) for each constitution amendment act, and the states that ratified it. However, this document does not appear to be published anymore because the last version I could find was from 2013. The gazette notifications do not indicate which states ratified an amendment. I could find a partial list for the 95th amendment (Assam, Mizoram, Bihar, and Manipur) with a loosely worded statement that "other states" had also ratified the amendment. 
* For the 99th amendment, sources differ as to whether Telangana ratified the amendment. 

**Any help clearing up any of these matters would be greatly appreciated.**