This document contains several notes about the evolution of Paragraph 20 of the Sixth Schedule that the author considers necessary to provide.
Of all the provisions of the constitution, this was the most difficult to find historical records for. The official copy of the constitution, as published by the Ministry of Law and Justice, does a good job of tracking amendments, especially those provisions that can only be amended by constitution amendment acts. However, there are several provisions that are more frequently amended by regular parliamentary acts; the First Schedule is another example. The matter is made more complicated with respect to provisions that have been completely replaced at one point or another, usually by the Seventh Amendment (as in the case of the First Schedule) and Paragraph 20 (by the North-Eastern Areas (Reorganisation) Act, 1971). What makes Paragraph 20 harder still is that it can be amended by a simple Governor's notification. 
As per a Supreme Court decision ([Edwingson Bareh vs the State of Assam and Others on 29 November, 1965](https://indiankanoon.org/doc/761424/)), the Governor of a state can issue notifications creating new autonomous districts without actually amending the text of the constitution as such. Therefore, the text of Paragraph 20 may not match up perfectly with the operation of the autonomous districts. There are two examples where this appears to have effect:
* The Jowai District was created by the notification at issue in the above-mentioned Supreme Court case. After turning the internet upside down, I could find only one copy of what that notification actually said, in page 43-44 of the [Gauhati High Court's](https://www.casemine.com/judgement/in/56b49417607dba348f009575) decision in the *Bareh* case. The Jowai District (later renamed the Jainta Hills District) was created without adding a new entry to Part A of the table appended to the end of the paragraph or amending the text to indicate that the area of the United Khasi-Jainta Hills District no longer included the area of the new district. The Governor's failure to explicitly amend the text of the constitution was part of the legal issue of the case, and Supreme Court Judge Mohammad Hidayatullah said in his dissent: "readers of the Constitution will have to hunt for Governor's notifications to know what is the extent of tribal area in Assam, how it is divided into autonomous districts and what is the tribal area[.]" 
* The second issue is the 2010 renaming of the North Cachar Hills District, now the Dima Hasao District. This change is not reflected in any copy of the constitution. 
The effective date of the [Government of Union Territories (Amendment) Act, 1971](https://www.indiacode.nic.in/repealedfileopen?rfilename=A1971-83.pdf), with respect to Section 13, which amended paragraph 20 and several other paragraphs of the Sixth Schedule, was April 29, 1972. As per the opening language to Section 13: the constitution stood amended "[o]n and from the day on which the Legislative Assembly of the Union territory of Mizoram has been duly constituted", which was the aforementioned date. The Ministry's official transcript of the constitution erroneously records the effective date of the amendments as February 16, 1972 in several places, particularly footnote 5 of page 336. The Act was indeed notified as being effective on that (February) date, but the editor did not take into account the opening language of Section 13. The Lieutenant Governor of Mizoram issued an [order](https://mizoramassembly.in/storage/Assembly/Gazette/GN/GZGN1ISS_008(I).pdf) (p. 19 of the .pdf) on May 5, 1972, which corroborates that "29th day of April, 1972, [was] the date on which the Legislative Assembly of the Union Territory of Mizoram [was] duly constituted under and in accordance with the provisions of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963)[.]" See also page 10 of the Supreme Court's judgement in [J. Thansiama (S) v. State of Mizoram & Ors. (S)](https://www.casemine.com/judgement/in/5790b345e561097e45a4e3e7).

*April 26, 2026*
~ Dawie Boers